README.md, before:

# PixeneOS (GrapheneOS++)

## Description

PixeneOS is a bash script for patching GrapheneOS OTA images with custom modules that gives you additional features.
This tool offers many features which are highly dependent on the upstream projects.

## Features

- [BCR](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/BCR) (>= version 1.65)
- [Custota](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/Custota) (>= version 4.5)
- [Magisk](https://github.com/pixincreate/Magisk) (>= version 27006) -- optional
- [MSD](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/MSD)
- [OEMUnlockOnBoot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/OEMUnlockOnBoot) (>= version 1.1)

### Note

1. This project is in no way affiliated with GrapheneOS or any of the projects mentioned above. This is a personal project for personal use
2. At the moment, the project only supports Linux given compatibility issues with other operating systems (`libsepol` is highly Linux specific)

## Requirements

In order to use this project, you need the following (most of them will be taken care by the script itself except for `git` and `python`):

- A Linux machine. You can use WSL or a VM if other operating systems
- Tools (needs to be in the path):
  - `git`
  - `python`
  - `avbroot`
  - `afsr`
  - `custota-tool`
- Modules:
  - `BCR`
  - `Custota`
  - `Magisk`
  - `MSD`
  - `OEMUnlockOnBoot`
- Dependencies:
  - `e2fsprogs`
  - `pkg-config`
  - `tomlkit` -- a python dependency

## Working

In short, this repository is a server.

[Release.yml](.github/workflows/release.yml) initially checks if a build exist already. If only rootless flavor exist and user opted for rooted flavor, it builds it and vice versa. If a version has got both the flavor for a specific device, then it skips the build. It is not recommended to force a new build for the same version.

The workflow then calls the build script (can also be run locally in your machine; linux machine is preferred as it is the only platform this project is known to work and others are untested) which downloads all the [requirements](#requirements) mentioned above and patches the OTA by putting your signing key and installing the additional packages as mentioned in [features section](#features) and generates the output.

The patched OTA is then released and will be available in the [releases section](https://github.com/pixincreate/PixeneOS/releases).

Once the patched OTA is released, the server branch is then updated depending on the flavor selected (`rootless` is the default)

As mentioned in the beginning, OTA will have [Custota](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/Custota) package installed during the patch. The user should add the OTA URL from the [server](https://github.com/pixincreate/PixeneOS/tree/gh-pages) branch to receive the OTA update.

## Usage

### Getting started

For now, below mentioned guides can be followed during initial setup:

- [chenxiaolong/avbroot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/avbroot)
- [chenxiaolong/my-avbroot-setup](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/my-avbroot-setup)
- [schnatterer/rooted-graphene](https://github.com/schnatterer/rooted-graphene)

### Tool usage

Linux based Operating System is recommended.

To get started, clone / fork the repository and:

- Modify `env.toml` file to set the environment variables (your device model, AVBRoot architecture, GrapheneOS update channel and etc.,)
- To run the program E2E (end to end), execute the following command:

  ```bash
  source src/main.sh
  ```

  `INTERACTIVE_MODE`, by default is set to `true` that calls `check_toml_env` function to check the existence of `env.toml`. If the file exist, it will read the toml file and set the environment variables accordingly. If the `env.toml` is non-existent, ignored. If it exist, and the format is wrong, the script exits with an error.

>[!IMPORTANT]
> Make sure that `env.toml` file exist in root of the project.

>[!NOTE]
> Executing the program end to end will **only** generate the patched OTA package in local and will not be pushed to the server (server branch that contains the json file which is read by the Custota).

In order to make the patched OTA available to the device, it needs to be hosted in the server. PixeneOS uses GitHub itself as the server for pushing updates and is handled by the [release.yml](.github/workflows/release.yml).

To setup automated release, below mentioned variables needs to be added in the GitHub secrets:

- `EMAIL`: Email address that is associated to the GitHub account (example: `user@example.com`)
- Base64 encoded keys (Check [commands section](#commands) to generate keys if not done already)
  - `AVB_KEY`
  - `CERT_OTA`
  - `OTA_KEY`
- Passphrases used to generate the keys
  - `PASSPHRASE_AVB`
  - `PASSPHRASE_OTA`

It does so, by creating a GitHub [release](https://github.com/pixincreate/PixeneOS/releases) and then update the release URL in magisk / rootless `json` under `gh-pages` branch.

#### Commands

- Execute the following command to see the list of available commands and other helpful information:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && help
  ```

  `help` command will display the help message.

- Execute the following command to see the list of supported tools:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && supported_tools
  ```
  `supported_tools` command will display the list of tools that are supported.

- To generate AVB keys, execute the following command:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && generate_keys
  ```

  This command will generate the AVB keys and store them in `.keys` directory.

>[!NOTE]
> For security reasons, `.keys` directory will **not** be pushed to your github repository.
> Execute `setup_hooks.sh` to install a pre-commit hook that will stop `.keys` directory from being pushed if tried.

- To create and make the release, execute the following command:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && create_and_make_release
  ```

- To call individual functions / commands, execute the commands in the following manner:

  ```bash
  source src/<file>.sh && <function_name>
  ```

## License

This project is licensed under the `MIT`. For more information, please refer to the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Dependencies that are downloaded from their respective repositories and are licensed under their respective licenses. Please refer to the respective repositories for more information.

## Credits

- [GrapheneOS](https://grapheneos.org) -- for the OS
- [Chenxiaolong](https://github.com/chenxiaolong) -- for the additional features and tools
  - [afsr](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/afsr)
  - [avbroot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/avbroot)
  - [BCR](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/BCR)
  - [Custota](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/Custota)
  - [MSD](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/MSD)
  - [my-avbroot-setup](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/my-avbroot-setup)
  - [OEMUnlockOnBoot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/OEMUnlockOnBoot)
- [Rooted-Graphene](https://github.com/schnatterer/rooted-graphene) -- for the motivation and inspiration to re-invent the wheel

## Disclaimer

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Commit message:

doc: add document to hop between root and rootless versions

README.md, after:

# PixeneOS (GrapheneOS++)

## Description

PixeneOS is a bash script for patching GrapheneOS OTA images with custom modules that gives you additional features.
This tool offers many features which are highly dependent on the upstream projects.

## Features

- [BCR](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/BCR) (>= version 1.65)
- [Custota](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/Custota) (>= version 4.5)
- [Magisk](https://github.com/pixincreate/Magisk) (>= version 27006) -- optional
- [MSD](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/MSD)
- [OEMUnlockOnBoot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/OEMUnlockOnBoot) (>= version 1.1)

### Note

1. This project is in no way affiliated with GrapheneOS or any of the projects mentioned above. This is a personal project for personal use
2. At the moment, the project only supports Linux given compatibility issues with other operating systems (`libsepol` is highly Linux specific)

## Requirements

In order to use this project, you need the following (most of them will be taken care by the script itself except for `git` and `python`):

- A Linux machine. You can use WSL or a VM if other operating systems
- Tools (needs to be in the path):
  - `git`
  - `python`
  - `avbroot`
  - `afsr`
  - `custota-tool`
- Modules:
  - `BCR`
  - `Custota`
  - `Magisk`
  - `MSD`
  - `OEMUnlockOnBoot`
- Dependencies:
  - `e2fsprogs`
  - `pkg-config`
  - `tomlkit` -- a python dependency

## Working

In short, this repository is a server.

[Release.yml](.github/workflows/release.yml) initially checks if a build exist already. If only rootless flavor exist and user opted for rooted flavor, it builds it and vice versa. If a version has got both the flavor for a specific device, then it skips the build. It is not recommended to force a new build for the same version.

The workflow then calls the build script (can also be run locally in your machine; linux machine is preferred as it is the only platform this project is known to work and others are untested) which downloads all the [requirements](#requirements) mentioned above and patches the OTA by putting your signing key and installing the additional packages as mentioned in [features section](#features) and generates the output.

The patched OTA is then released and will be available in the [releases section](https://github.com/pixincreate/PixeneOS/releases).

Once the patched OTA is released, the server branch is then updated depending on the flavor selected (`rootless` is the default)

As mentioned in the beginning, OTA will have [Custota](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/Custota) package installed during the patch. The user should add the OTA URL from the [server](https://github.com/pixincreate/PixeneOS/tree/gh-pages) branch to receive the OTA update.

## Usage

### Getting started

For now, below mentioned guides can be followed during initial setup:

- [chenxiaolong/avbroot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/avbroot)
- [chenxiaolong/my-avbroot-setup](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/my-avbroot-setup)
- [schnatterer/rooted-graphene](https://github.com/schnatterer/rooted-graphene)

### Tool usage

Linux based Operating System is recommended.

To get started, clone / fork the repository and:

- Modify `env.toml` file to set the environment variables (your device model, AVBRoot architecture, GrapheneOS update channel and etc.,)
- To run the program E2E (end to end), execute the following command:

  ```bash
  source src/main.sh
  ```

  `INTERACTIVE_MODE`, by default is set to `true` that calls `check_toml_env` function to check the existence of `env.toml`. If the file exist, it will read the toml file and set the environment variables accordingly. If the `env.toml` is non-existent, ignored. If it exist, and the format is wrong, the script exits with an error.

>[!IMPORTANT]
> Make sure that `env.toml` file exist in root of the project.

>[!NOTE]
> Executing the program end to end will **only** generate the patched OTA package in local and will not be pushed to the server (server branch that contains the json file which is read by the Custota).

In order to make the patched OTA available to the device, it needs to be hosted in the server. PixeneOS uses GitHub itself as the server for pushing updates and is handled by the [release.yml](.github/workflows/release.yml).

To setup automated release, below mentioned variables needs to be added in the GitHub secrets:

- `EMAIL`: Email address that is associated to the GitHub account (example: `user@example.com`)
- Base64 encoded keys (Check [commands section](#commands) to generate keys if not done already)
  - `AVB_KEY`
  - `CERT_OTA`
  - `OTA_KEY`
- Passphrases used to generate the keys
  - `PASSPHRASE_AVB`
  - `PASSPHRASE_OTA`

It does so, by creating a GitHub [release](https://github.com/pixincreate/PixeneOS/releases) and then update the release URL in magisk / rootless `json` under `gh-pages` branch.

##### Hop between root and rootless

- In order to remove root, you can change to the `rootless` flavor.
  - To do so, set the following URL in custota: https://pixincreate.github.io/PixeneOS/rootless/
- In order to add root, you can change to the `magisk` flavor.
  - To do so, set the following URL in custota: https://pixincreate.github.io/PixeneOS/magisk/

#### Commands

- Execute the following command to see the list of available commands and other helpful information:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && help
  ```

  `help` command will display the help message.

- Execute the following command to see the list of supported tools:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && supported_tools
  ```
  `supported_tools` command will display the list of tools that are supported.

- To generate AVB keys, execute the following command:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && generate_keys
  ```

  This command will generate the AVB keys and store them in `.keys` directory.

>[!NOTE]
> For security reasons, `.keys` directory will **not** be pushed to your github repository.
> Execute `setup_hooks.sh` to install a pre-commit hook that will stop `.keys` directory from being pushed if tried.

- To create and make the release, execute the following command:

  ```bash
  source src/util_functions.sh && create_and_make_release
  ```

- To call individual functions / commands, execute the commands in the following manner:

  ```bash
  source src/<file>.sh && <function_name>
  ```

## License

This project is licensed under the `MIT`. For more information, please refer to the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Dependencies that are downloaded from their respective repositories and are licensed under their respective licenses. Please refer to the respective repositories for more information.

## Credits

- [GrapheneOS](https://grapheneos.org) -- for the OS
- [Chenxiaolong](https://github.com/chenxiaolong) -- for the additional features and tools
  - [afsr](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/afsr)
  - [avbroot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/avbroot)
  - [BCR](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/BCR)
  - [Custota](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/Custota)
  - [MSD](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/MSD)
  - [my-avbroot-setup](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/my-avbroot-setup)
  - [OEMUnlockOnBoot](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/OEMUnlockOnBoot)
- [Rooted-Graphene](https://github.com/schnatterer/rooted-graphene) -- for the motivation and inspiration to re-invent the wheel

## Disclaimer

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
